---
layout: post
title:  "ANTH215D: Language & Culture"
author: "Dominic Groshong"
categories: notes
---

## October 2, 2018
---

Historically we are a low in the number of languages, the cultural revolution caused this shrinkage in the number of languages. Humans stopped moving around and congregated into larger and larger communities. As these societies grew they consolidated the languages spoken in those villages -> towns -> cities -> city states -> countries.

Languages spoken today are not evenly distributed around the world. We can devide these languages into three distinct categories.

1. Global
	- English, Chinese, Spanish, Hindi-Urdu
	- Each has hundreds of millions to over a billion speakers, and international media networks.
2. Internationally Significant
	- Arabic, French, German, Japanese, Malay, Dutch
	- This is the nationally or regionally significant
3. Endangered
	- Tagalog, Nahuatl, Ojibwa, Mohawk, Scottish Gaelic, Burushaski
	- Small local strong languages to endangered
	- Associated with indigenous populations

Anthropologists are in agreement that between 50-90% of existing languages are almost guaranteed to be extinct by the end of the current century.

#### Language Endangerment Terminology
1. Vulnerable
	 - Children speak the language in specific contexts
2. Definitely
3. Severely
4. Critically
5. Extinct

##### Questions to explore
What happens when a language goes extinct - how does this occur?
Why do languages go Extinct
Does it matter, and why? what doe we lose when we lose a language?
what can be done, what is being done about it? (language revitalization)

#### Definitions
**Endangered:** it is at risk of falling out of use by any existing community of speakers

**Generational Phenomenon:**
- Each generation has a different set of language competencies.
- Each generation finds itself in a different sociopolitical context.
- Language survival or loss depends on what is passed down from one generation to another.

**Language Shift:** Speaker population become widely bilingual

_**NOTE**_ *In our national culture monolingualism is the norm, that is not the case outside of the United States.*

## October 3, 2018
---
